# Wikipedia Corporate Culture

**Source:** https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organizational_culture

**Crawled:** 2026-06-26T08:36:48.320095

**Title:** Organizational culture - Wikipedia

---

Organizational culture - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Definition 2 History 3 Analysis Toggle Analysis subsection 3.1 Insularity 3.2 Strength 3.3 Risks 3.4 Cultural 3.5 Groupthink 3.5.1 Five Monkeys Experiment 3.6 Rigidity and adaptability 3.7 Bullying 3.8 COVID-19 impact 4 Indicators 5 Intended effects 6 Culture change Toggle Culture change subsection 6.1 Stages 6.2 Obstacles 6.3 Methods 7 Critical views Toggle Critical views subsection 7.1 Legal liability 7.2 Subcultures 7.3 Shadow side 8 See also 9 Notes 10 References 11 Sources 12 Further reading 13 External links Toggle the table of contents Organizational culture 37 languages العربية Azərbaycanca Български Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Español Eesti فارسی Français Hausa עברית Hrvatski Magyar Հայերեն Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 La .lojban. 한국어 Lietuvių Македонски Nederlands Polski Português Română Русский Slovenščina தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Українська Tiếng Việt 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Customary behaviours in an organization "Business culture" redirects here. For other uses, see Culture . This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: &#160; "Organizational culture" &#160;–&#160; news &#160; · newspapers &#160; · books &#160; · scholar &#160; · JSTOR ( January 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article may contain original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( May 2024 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Business administration Accounting Management accounting Financial accounting Audit Business entity ( list ) Corporate group Corporation sole Company Conglomerate Holding company Cooperative Corporation Joint-stock company Limited liability company Partnership Privately held company Sole proprietorship State-owned enterprise Corporate governance Annual general meeting Board of directors Supervisory board Advisory board Audit committee Corporate law Commercial law Constitutional documents Contract Corporate crime Corporate liability Insolvency law International trade law Mergers and acquisitions Corporate title Chairman Chief business officer / Chief brand officer Chief executive officer / Chief operating officer Chief financial officer Chief human resources officer Chief information officer / Chief marketing officer Chief product officer / Chief technology officer Economics Commodity Public economics Labour economics Development economics International economics Mixed economy Planned economy Econometrics Environmental economics Open economy Market economy Knowledge economy Microeconomics Macroeconomics Economic development Economic statistics Finance Financial statement Insurance Factoring Cash conversion cycle Insider dealing Capital budgeting Commercial bank Derivative Financial statement analysis Financial risk Public finance Corporate finance Managerial finance International finance Liquidation Stock market Financial market Tax Financial institution Capital management Venture capital Types of management Asset Brand Business intelligence Business development Capacity Capability Change innovation Commercial Marketing Communications Configuration Conflict Content Customer relationship Distributed Earned value Electronic business Enterprise resource planning &#160; management information system Financial Human resource &#160; development Incident Knowledge Legal Materials Network administrator Office Operations &#160; services Performance Power Process Product life-cycle Product Project Property Quality Records Resource Risk &#160; crisis Sales Security Service Strategic Supply chain Systems administrator Talent Technology Organization Architecture Behavior Communication Culture Conflict Development Engineering Hierarchy Patterns Space Structure Trade Business analysis Business ethics Business plan Business judgment rule Consumer behaviour International business Business model International trade Trade route Business process Business statistics Business&#32;portal v t e Organizational culture is the set of shared norms, values, and behaviors in organizations that reflect an organization's core values and strategic direction. &#91; 1 &#93; &#91; 2 &#93; This concept is also referred to as business culture , corporate culture or company culture . &#91; 3 &#93; The term corporate culture emerged in the late 1980s and early 1990s. &#91; 4 &#93; &#91; a &#93; It was initially used by managers , sociologists , and organizational theorists during the 1980s. &#91; 6 &#93; &#91; 7 &#93; Organizational culture influences how people interact , how decisions are made (or avoided), the context within which cultural artifacts are created, employee attachment , the organization 's competitive advantage, and the internal alignment of its units. It is distinct from the national culture or the broader cultural background of its workforce. A related topic, organizational identity , refers to statements and images that are important to an organization and help to differentiate it from other organizations. An organization may also have its own management philosophy . Organizational identity influences all stakeholders, leaders and employees alike. &#91; 8 &#93; Definition [ edit ] Various definitions exist, without consensus. Lesley Willcoxson and Bruce Millett note that organizational cultures can be described in similar ways to wider forms of culture, such as national culture. &#91; 9 &#93; Some of the definitions offered include: Writers Terrence E. Deal and Allan A. Kennedy defined organizational culture as "the way things get done around here". &#91; 10 &#93; According to Elliott Jaques , the culture of a factory "is its customary and traditional way of thinking and doing of things, which is shared to a greater or lesser degree by all its members, and which new members must learn, and at least partially accept, in order to be accepted into service in the firm". &#91; 11 &#93; Edgar Schein defined it as including a shared "pattern of basic assumptions" that group members acquired over time as they learn to cope with internal and external organizationally relevant problems. &#91; 12 &#93; Ravasi and Schultz characterized it as a set of shared assumptions that guide behaviors. &#91; 13 &#93; It is also the pattern of such collective behaviors and assumptions that are taught to new organizational members as a way of perceiving, thinking, and feeling. &#91; 14 &#93; Schein, &#91; 15 &#93; Deal, Kennedy, &#91; 10 &#93; and Kotter &#91; 16 &#93; advanced the idea that cultures are diverse and may encompass subcultures linked to individual management teams . &#91; 17 &#93; Ravasi and Schultz &#91; 18 &#93; and Allaire and Firsirotu &#91; 19 &#93; claim that organizational culture represents the collective values, beliefs and principles of organizational members. It is influenced by factors such as history, type of product, market, technology, strategy, type of employees, management style , and national culture. Culture includes the organization's vision , values, norms, systems, symbols, language, assumptions, environment, location, beliefs and habits. &#91; 20 &#93; &#91; 21 &#93; &#91; 22 &#93; &#91; 23 &#93; Gallup reported that just 22% of U.S. employees feel connected to their organization's culture. &#91; 24 &#93; Geert Hofstede defined organizational culture as "the collective programming of the mind which distinguishes the members of one organization from another". &#91; 25 &#93; McHale defines culture as "how the organization functions and its deeply embedded patterns". &#91; 26 &#93; History [ edit ] Elliott Jaques introduced the concept in his 1951 book The Changing Culture of a Factory . &#91; 27 &#93; The book was a published report of "a case study of developments in the social life of one industrial community between April 1948 and November 1950". &#91; 11 &#93; The case involved a publicly-held British company engaged principally in the manufacture, sale, and servicing of metal bearings. The study concerned itself with the description, analysis, and development of corporate group behaviors . &#91; 28 &#93; Analysis [ edit ] Researchers have proposed various dimensions individually and in combination as useful for analyzing organizational culture. Examples include external/internal, strong/weak, flexible/rigid, and many others. Insularity [ edit ] Culture can be externally focused, aiming to satisfy customers, investors, and partners. Alternatively, they can be internally focused, aiming to satisfy employees, comply with union-imposed rules, or meet conduct standards around issues such as diversity, equity, and inclusion . &#91; 29 &#93; Many organizations lie between such extremes, attempting to balance the needs of multiple stakeholders. Strength [ edit ] Any type of culture can be strongly or only tacitly supported. A strong culture is characterized by reinforcing tools such as ceremonies and policies to instill and spread it. &#91; 30 &#93; &#91; predatory publication &#93; The intent is to secure group compliance. &#91; 31 &#93; Researchers generally report that organizations with strong cultures are more successful. &#91; 32 &#93; &#91; 33 &#93; An employee's perception of the organization's culture can have an impact on the employee's longevity with the organization. When organizations create a positive environment for their employees, they experience professional fulfillment, boosted performance, and a longer stint with the organization. &#91; 34 &#93; Risks [ edit ] Tension arises when cultural (personal) and organizational identities do not match well because corporate policies, work practices, and communication styles conflict with local customs, for example, in terms of formal vs. informal work environments, direct vs. indirect communication, and individualistic vs. collectivist approaches. &#91; 35 &#93; &#91; 36 &#93; &#91; 37 &#93; Quiet quitting is a principle that could potentially affect organizations with negative culture. It is the idea of doing the bare minimum on a job and setting boundaries in response to poor culture, burnout, lack of recognition, and inadequate work-life balance. This occurs in unhealthy work environments where personal circumstances force employees to stay. &#91; 38 &#93; Cultural [ edit ] See also: Cross-cultural differences in decision-making and Cross-cultural psychology Organizational culture is used to control, coordinate, and integrate distinct groups across the organization. &#91; 39 &#93; Differences in national cultures must be addressed. &#91; 40 &#93; Such differences include organizational structure and manager/employee relationships. &#91; 41 &#93; Groupthink [ edit ] Irving Janis defined groupthink as "a mode of thinking that people engage in when they are deeply involved in a cohesive in-group, when the members' strivings for unanimity override their motivation to realistically appraise alternative courses of action." &#91; 42 &#93; This is a state in which even if group members have different ideas, they do not challenge the group. Groupthink can lead to a lack of creativity and decisions made without critical evaluation. &#91; 43 &#93; Hogg and separately Deanne et al . stated that groupthink can occur, for example, when group members rely heavily on a charismatic figure or when members evince an "evangelical" &#91; 44 &#93; &#91; 45 &#93; belief in the organization's values. Groupthink can also occur in groups characterized by a friendly climate conducive to conflict avoidance. Five Monkeys Experiment [ edit ] Since the late 1960s, the so-called "Five Monkeys Experiment", which serves to exemplify the adverse effects of unquestioned traditions, has become part of management lore, often titled "How Company Policy Is Made". &#91; 46 &#93; It imagines a situation where five monkeys are in a cage with a banana tied to the ceiling. Whenever a monkey climbs to reach the banana, all five are sprayed with cold water. The group quickly learn to ignore the banana and punish any monkey who attempts to reach for it. If one monkey is removed from the cage and replaced with a newcomer, they too are punished for reaching for the banana. If every monkey is subsequently replaced in this manner, so that none present remember being sprayed with cold water, the group will supposedly continue to punish any attempts to reach the banana. The monkeys are perpetuating a caution that may be redundant, "because that's the way it's always been around here". &#91; 46 &#93; Rigidity and adaptability [ edit ] Willcoxson and Millett note that organizational cultures change over time. &#91; 9 &#93; &#58;&#8202;93&#8202; Kotter and Heskett define an adaptive culture as characterized by managers who pay close attention to their constituencies, especially customers, initiating change when needed, and taking risks. They claim that organizations with adaptive cultures perform better. &#91; 16 &#93; Bullying [ edit ] Main articles: Bullying and Workplace bullying Bullying manifests in workplaces that allow employees of higher status to harass those of lower status. This generally requires support or at least forbearance from company leaders. &#91; 47 &#93; Bullying can cascade down the organizational hierarchy as supervisors experiencing bullying display the same behavior to their subordinates. &#91; 48 &#93; Workplace bullying impacts employees, leading to increased stress on the job, decreased productivity and high turnover rates. Employees who are bullied often remain silent because management fails to hold perpetrators accountable. &#91; 49 &#93; COVID-19 impact [ edit ] The pandemic led many organizations to incorporate limiting spread into their cultures as a collective responsibility. Responses focused on requiring vaccines, hygiene, and masking. In Asia, mask-wearing was part of several national cultures predating the pandemic. &#91; 50 &#93; This was driven by experience with prior flus in Asia, such as Spanish flu , Hong Kong flu , Avian flu , and Swine flu , in addition to SARS , as well as various affronts to air quality such as volcanic eruptions . &#91; 51 &#93; Somers categorized cultures based on whether the needs of the individual or the group were foremost. He used behaviors such as mask-wearing to measure collectivism vs individualism. &#91; 52 &#93; Cultures otherwise rated "strong" were relatively resistant to change during the pandemic. &#91; 53 &#93; However, strong cultures that emphasized innovation were more willing to change. Mandated interventions could be seen by members either as attempts to protect them or as attempts to exert control despite limited effectiveness, depending on how they were presented. &#91; 54 &#93; Digital tools such as videoconferencing , screen-sharing, file sharing , shared document authoring, digital whiteboards , and chat groups became widely accepted, replacing in-person meetings. The reduced amount of face-to-face communications may have impacted organizational cultures. New members, lacking face time with others, experienced difficulty in adapting to their organization's culture. The loss of face time affected existing employees as well, directly weakening cultures, in addition to the indirect effects that strengthened or weakened cultures as organizations reacted in various ways to the pandemic. Some members felt disengaged and expendable rather than essential, alienated, and exhausted. &#91; 55 &#93; Sull and Sull reported that employees rated their leadership higher, given honest/open communication, integrity, and transparency, more than in preceding years. Also, employers and leaders giving more attention to employees' welfare had a positive impact on cultural adherence. &#91; 56 &#93; Chambers claimed that this was a short-term response rather than a culture change. &#91; 57 &#93; Deloitte argued that employees displayed a greater sense of purpose, inspiration, and contribution. Also, leaders became more tolerant of employees' failure because of a significant increase in experimentation and risk-taking. &#91; 58 &#93; Daum and Maraist claimed that a sense of purpose relates to customers and the society in which employees are part. They compared hospitals and retail shops. The former had a greater sense of purpose during the pandemic, while the latter had less. &#91; 59 &#93; Indicators [ edit ] Healthy cultures address members' concerns about the well-being of the organization. Whistleblowing , particularly when it damages a company's reputation, is considered to be a sign of a dysfunctional corporate culture, indicating that internal methods of addressing problems are inadequate. &#91; 60 &#93; Intended effects [ edit ] Numerous outcomes have been associated either directly or indirectly with organizational culture. The relationships between organizational culture and various outcomes include organizational performance, employee commitment, and innovation. A strong organizational culture is associated with various outcomes, including: &#91; 61 &#93; &#91; 62 &#93; Improved performance through innovation and customer service Consistent efficient employee performance Team cohesiveness High employee morale and job satisfaction &#91; 63 &#93; Alignment towards goal achievement Increased member conscientiousness, leading to better compliance with procedures such as information security , and workplace safety &#91; 64 &#93; &#91; 65 &#93; A Harvard Business School study reported that culture has a significant effect on an organization's long-term economic performance. The study examined the management practices at 160 organizations over ten years and found that culture can impact performance. Performance-oriented cultures experienced better financial results. Additionally, a 2002 Corporate Leadership Council study found that cultural traits such as risk-taking, internal communications, and flexibility are important drivers of performance. Furthermore, innovativeness, productivity through people, and other cultural factors cited by Peters and Waterman in In Search of Excellence also have positive economic consequences. Denison, Haaland, and Goelzer reported that culture contributes to the success of the organization, but not all dimensions contribute equally. Effects differed across nations, implying that organizational culture is rooted in national culture. &#91; 66 &#93; Culture change [ edit ] Cultures are not static and can evolve over time, either organically or through intentional change efforts by management. &#91; 67 &#93; Culture change may be attempted to reduce member turnover, influence behavior, make improvements to the organization, reset objectives, rescale the organization, or achieve specific results. &#91; 68 &#93; Stages [ edit ] Organizational cultures have been reported to change in stages. Organizational communication professor Dave Logan proposed five stages: &#91; 69 &#93; &#91; 70 &#93; "Life sucks" (a subsystem severed from other functional systems, such as a tribe, gang or prison—2 percent of the population); "My life sucks" (—25 percent of population); "I'm great, and you're not" (—48 percent of population); "We are great, but other groups suck" &#91; verification needed &#93; (unification around more than individual competence—22 percent of population) and "Life is great" (3 percent of the population). Obstacles [ edit ] Existing culture can hinder change efforts, especially where members understand the roles that they are supposed to play. Marquis et al. claimed that 70% of all change efforts fail because of the members. Organizational culture, and the structures in which they are embedded, often exhibit substantial inertia. &#91; 71 &#93; Methods [ edit ] Change methodologies include Peter Senge 's concept of a "learning organization" expressed in The Fifth Discipline or Directive Communication's "corporate culture evolution". Prior to introducing a cultural change, a needs assessment can characterize the existing culture. This involves some mixture of employee surveys, interviews, focus groups, observation, customer surveys, and other internal research. The company must then describe the new, desired culture, and design a change process. Cummings and Worley offer six guidelines for cultural change, in line with the eight distinct stages mentioned by Kotter. &#91; 72 &#93; &#91; 73 &#93; Formulate a strategic vision (Kotter stages 1, 2, and 3). A clear vision of the firm's new strategy, shared values and behaviors provides direction for the culture change. &#91; 74 &#93; Display top-management commitment (stage 4). Culture change must be managed from the top of the organization, as senior management's willingness to change is an important indicator. &#91; 74 &#93; Leadership must be strongly in favor of the change to implement the change. De Caluwé and Vermaak provide a framework with five different ways of thinking about change. &#91; 75 &#93; Model change at the highest level (stage 5). In order to show that management wants the change, the change has to be visible and notable. Leadership needs to express the values and behaviors to be realized. It is important that leadership acknowledge the strengths of the current culture; it must be made clear that the culture needs adjustments rather than radical changes. &#91; 10 &#93; &#91; 76 &#93; &#91; 77 &#93; &#91; 78 &#93; &#91; 79 &#93; This process may include creating committees, task forces, or value managers. Change agents communicate the new culture. They must embody courage, flexibility, interpersonal skills, organization knowledge, and patience. These individuals must be catalysts, rather than dictators. &#91; 80 &#93; The fourth step is to modify the organization to support change. This includes identifying systems, policies, procedures and rules accordingly. This may include changes to accountability systems, compensation, benefits/reward structures, and recruitment and retention programs. Select and socialize newcomers and expel deviants (stages 7 and 8). &#91; 73 &#93; A way to implement a change is to connect it to organizational membership. People may have to be selected and terminated in terms of their fit with the new culture. &#91; 81 &#93; Encouraging employee motivation and loyalty is key and creates a healthy culture. Change managers must be able to connect the desired behavior and organizational success. Training must be provided to employees. Develop ethical and legal sensitivity. Changes in culture can lead to tensions between organizational and individual interests, which can create legal problems for practitioners. This is particularly relevant for changes in integrity, control, equitable treatment and job security. &#91; 81 &#93; An evaluation process monitors progress and identifies areas that need further development. This step surfaces obstacles and resistant members, and acknowledges and rewards improvement, which encourages change. It may be necessary to incorporate new change managers, such as outside consultants. People often resist change, leaving it to leadership to convince people that gains outweigh losses. Besides institutionalization, reification is another process that tends to occur in strong cultures. The organization may come to be regarded as a source of pride, and even unique. The organization's members develop a strong bond that transcends material returns, and begin to identify with it, turning the organization into a sort of clan. Critical views [ edit ] Criticism of "organizational culture" began in the early 1980s. &#91; 7 &#93; Most criticism comes from writers in critical management studies who, for example, express skepticism about functionalist and unitarist views. They stress how these assumptions can stifle dissent and reproduce propaganda and ideology . They suggest that organizations do not embody a single culture ( diversity ), and cultural engineering may not reflect the interests of all stakeholders. Parker suggested that many of the assumptions surrounding organizational culture are not new. They reflect a long-standing tension between cultural and structural (or informal and formal) versions of organizations. Further, it is reasonable to suggest that complex organizations might have many cultures, and that such subcultures might overlap and contradict each other. The neat typologies of cultural forms found in textbooks rarely acknowledge such complexities , or the various economic contradictions that exist in capitalist organizations. &#91; 82 &#93; Smircich criticized theories that attempt to categorize or ' pigeonhole ' organizational culture. &#91; 6 &#93; &#91; 83 &#93; She applied the metaphor of a plant root to represent culture, saying that it drives organizations rather than vice versa. Organizations are the product of their organizational culture, which shapes behavior and interaction. While Schein's underlying assumptions are that beliefs, perceptions, thoughts, and feelings are taken for granted and can be observed and considered the ultimate source of values and action. However, such assumptions undermine attempts to categorize and define organizational culture. &#91; 84 &#93; See also: Complexity theory and organizations Legal liability [ edit ] In the US, corporate culture can legally be found to be a cause of injuries and a reason for fining companies, such as when the US Department of Labor Mine Safety and Health Administration levied a fine of more than US$10.8 million on Performance Coal Co. following the Upper Big Branch Mine disaster in April 2010. This was the largest fine in the history of this agency. &#91; 85 &#93; Subcultures [ edit ] Groups within the organization may act according to their own subcultures that are not fully aligned with those of the organization as a whole. For example, computer technicians will have expertise, language and behaviors gained independently of the organization, but their presence can influence the culture of the larger organization. Shadow side [ edit ] Egan and Tate speak of organizations having a "shadow side", &#91; 86 &#93; which Egan defined as: All those things that substantially and consistently affect the productivity and quality of the working life of a business, for better or worse, but which are not found on organisation charts, in company manuals, or in the discussions that take place in formal meetings. &#91; 87 &#93; Tate describes the shadow side as the "often disagreeable, messy, crazy and opaque aspects of [an] organisation's personality". &#91; 86 &#93; See also [ edit ] Assessment culture Confirmation bias &#160;– Bias confirming existing attitudes Belief perseverance &#160;– Maintenance of a belief despite new information that firmly contradicts it Cultural capital &#160;– Concept of social status and social mobility Cultural identity &#160;– Identity or feeling of belonging to a group Diversity &#160;– Concept in sociology and political studies Fail fast (business) &#160;– Business management concept Gareth Morgan (business theorist) &#160;– British/Canadian organizational theorist (born 1943) Inclusive business Inclusiveness &#160;– Form of social disadvantage and relegation to the fringe of society Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Kick the cat &#160;– Metaphor about frustration within an organization Kiss up kick down &#160;– Form of social malfunction Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Lifestyle (sociology) &#160;– Way or style of living Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Machiavellianism in the workplace &#160;– Concept in organizational psychology Multiculturalism &#160;– Existence of multiple, distinct cultures within a single country Narcissism in the workplace &#160;– Problem producing an impact on an organization Organizational behavior &#160;– Study of human behavior in organizational settings Organizational dissent Organizational learning &#160;– Academic discipline; examines how goal-driven social entities add and create knowledge Organizational psychology &#160;– Branch of psychology Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Organizational studies &#160;– Academic field Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Overwork &#160;– Excessive work Power (social and political) &#160;– Ability to influence the behaviour of others People Operations &#160;– Organization's workforce Precarious work &#160;– Type of non-standard or temporary employment Psychological capital Psychopathy in the workplace &#160;– Prevalence of psychopathy in organizations Realistic job preview Silicon Valley culture &#160;– Technology hub in California, United States Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Three circles model Tick-box culture &#160;– Bureaucratic and external impositions on professional working conditions Working class culture &#160;– Culture and life of wage workers Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Workplace diversity &#160;– Aspects of a multicultural organization Presenteeism &#160;– Act or culture of working while sick Occupational safety and health &#160;– Field concerned with the safety, health and welfare of people at work Notes [ edit ] ^ Unlike many expressions that emerge in business jargon, the term spread to newspapers and magazines. Few usage experts object to the term. Over 80 percent of usage experts accept the sentence "The new management style is a reversal of GE's traditional corporate culture, in which virtually everything the company does is measured in some form and filed away somewhere. " &#91; 5 &#93; References [ edit ] ^ Cameron, Newton; Ruth, Knight (2022-02-04). Handbook of Research Methods for Organisational Culture . Edward Elgar Publishing. ISBN &#160; 978-1-78897-626-8 . ^ González-Torres, Thais; Gelashvili, Vera; Martínez-Navalón, Juan Gabriel; Herrera-Enríquez, Giovanni (2023-09-15). "Editorial: Organizational culture and climate: new perspectives and challenges" . Frontiers in Psychology . 14 1267945. doi : 10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1267945 . ISSN &#160; 1664-1078 . PMC &#160; 10542401 . PMID &#160; 37790231 . ^ Graham, John R.; Grennan, Jillian; Harvey, Campbell R.; Rajgopal, Shivaram (2022). "Corporate culture: Evidence from the field" . Journal of Financial Economics . 146 (2): 552– 593. doi : 10.1016/j.jfineco.2022.07.008 . ^ "Culture Clash: When Corporate Culture Fights Strategy, It Can Cost You" . Arizona State University . March 30, 2011. Archived from the original on 2011-11-10. "Culture is everything", said Lou Gerstner, the CEO who pulled IBM from near ruin in the 1990s. ^ The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language , Fourth Edition copyright ©2000 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Updated in 2009. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company ^ a b One of the first to point to the importance of culture for organizational analysis and the intersection of culture theory and organization theory is Linda Smircich in her article Concepts of Culture and Organizational Analysis in 1983. See Smircich, Linda (1983). "Concepts of Culture and Organizational Analysis". Administrative Science Quarterly . 28 (3): 339– 358. doi : 10.2307/2392246 . hdl : 10983/26094 . JSTOR &#160; 2392246 . ^ a b Farish, Phillip (1982). "Career Talk: Corporate Culture". Hispanic Engineer (1). The term "Corporate Culture" is fast losing the academic ring it once had among U.S. manager. Sociologists and anthropologists popularized the word "culture" in its technical sense, which describes overall behavior patterns in groups. But corporate managers, untrained in sociology jargon, found it difficult to use the term unselfconsciously. ^ Lin, Y.Y. (March 2004). "Organizational Identity and Its Implication on Organization Development" . ERIC: Institute of Educational Sciences . Retrieved March 31, 2025 . ^ a b Willcoxson, L. and Millett, B., The Management of Organizational Culture , Australian Journal of Management &amp; Organisational Behaviour , 3(2), 91-99, accessed on 2 June 2025 ^ a b c Deal, Terrence E.; Kennedy, Allan A. (1982). Corporate Cultures: The Rites and Rituals of Corporate Life . Addison-Wesley Publishing Company. ISBN &#160; 978-0-201-10287-1 . ^ a b Jaques, Elliott (1951). The changing culture of a factory . Tavistock Institute of Human Relations. [London]: Tavistock Publications. p.&#160;251. ISBN &#160; 978-0-415-26442-6 . OCLC &#160; 300631 . } : ISBN / Date incompatibility ( help ) ^ Schein, Edgar H. (2020). "Organizational culture". American Psychologist . 45 (2): 109– 119. doi : 10.1037/0003-066X.45.2.109 . ^ Ravasi, D.; Schultz, M. (2006). "Responding to organizational identity threats: Exploring the role of organizational culture". Academy of Management Journal . 49 (3): 433– 458. CiteSeerX &#160; 10.1.1.472.2754 . doi : 10.5465/amj.2006.21794663 . ^ Schein, Edgar H. (2004). Organizational culture and leadership (3rd&#160;ed.). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. pp.&#160; 26– 33. ISBN &#160; 0-7879-6845-5 . OCLC &#160; 54407721 . ^ Schein, Edgar (1992). Organizational Culture and Leadership: A Dynamic View . San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. pp.&#160; 9 . ISBN &#160; 978-1-55542-487-9 . ^ a b Kotter, J. P. ; Heskett, James L. (1992). Corporate Culture and Performance . New York: The Free Press. ISBN &#160; 978-0-02-918467-7 . ^ Runco, Mark A.; Pritzker, Steven R. (2020). "Preface". Encyclopedia of Creativity . pp.&#160; vii– ix. doi : 10.1016/b978-0-12-815614-8.05001-5 . ISBN &#160; 978-0-12-815615-5 . S2CID &#160; 243695843 . ^ Ravasi, Davide; Schultz, Majken (June 2006). "Responding to Organizational Identity Threats: Exploring the Role of Organizational Culture". Academy of Management Journal . 49 (3): 433– 458. doi : 10.5465/amj.2006.21794663 . ^ Allaire, Yvan; Firsirotu, Mihaela E. (July 1984). "Theories of Organizational Culture". Organization Studies . 5 (3): 193– 226. doi : 10.1177/017084068400500301 . S2CID &#160; 146725972 . ^ Hyungrae Jo (December 2012). "The Study on the Influence of Entrepreneurial Orientation and Organizational Culture on Firm Performance". Global Business Administration Review . 9 (4): 345– 371. doi : 10.17092/jibr.2012.9.4.345 . ^ Madan, Manish; Jain, Esha (2015-11-27). "Impact of Organizational Culture &amp; Climate on Managerial Effectiveness: An Empirical Study" . Delhi Business Review . 16 (2): 47– 57. doi : 10.51768/dbr.v16i2.162201518 . ^ Lucas, Colleen; Kline, Theresa (2008-04-18). "Understanding the influence of organizational culture and group dynamics on organizational change and learning". The Learning Organization . 15 (3): 277– 287. doi : 10.1108/09696470810868882 . hdl : 1880/41747 . ^ Denney, Shannon (August 2019). "Driving Change From the Bottom Up in a Top-Down Culture: Disruptive Innovation: One Organization's "Lessons Learned" in Gaining Stakeholder Acceptance". Nurse Leader . 17 (4): 360– 364. doi : 10.1016/j.mnl.2018.11.004 . S2CID &#160; 201136594 . ^ Gallup, Inc (2023). "Indicator: Organizational Culture" . Gallup.com . Retrieved 2023-11-28 . ^ Hofstede, G.J.; Hofstede, G.J.; Minkov, M. (1991). Cultures and organizations: Software of the Mind . London: McGraw-Hill, UK. p.&#160;262. ^ The Insider's Guide to Culture Change: Creating A Workplace that Delivers, Grows, and Adapts. Publisher Harper Collins Leadership (2020). ^ Hatch, Mary Jo; Cunliffe, Ann L. (2013) [1997]. "A history of organizational culture in organization theory". Organization Theory: Modern, Symbolic and Postmodern Perspectives (2&#160;ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. p.&#160;161. ISBN &#160; 978-0-19-964037-9 . OCLC &#160; 809554483 . Retrieved 7 June 2020 . With the publication of his book The Changing Culture of a Factory in 1952, British sociologist Elliott Jaques became the first organization theorist to describe an organizational culture. ^ Kummerow, Elizabeth (12 September 2013). Organisational culture: concept, context, and measurement . Kirby, Neil.; Ying, Lee Xin. New Jersey: World Scientific. p.&#160;13. ISBN &#160; 978-981-283-783-7 . OCLC &#160; 868980134 . Jacques [sic], a Canadian psychoanalyst and organisational psychologist, made a major contribution [...] with his detailed study of Glacier Metals, a medium-sized British manufacturing company. ^ "Progress Reporting Hub" . corporate.dow.com . Retrieved 2023-12-03 . ^ Madu, Boniface C (2012). "Organization culture as driver of competitive advantage" (PDF) . Journal of Academic and Business Ethics . 5 (1): 1– 9. ^ M. Shakil, Ahmad (2012). "Impact of organizational culture on performance management practices in Pakistan". Business Intelligence Journal . 5 (1): 50– 55. S2CID &#160; 18576596 . ^ Chatman, J. A.; Jehn, K. A. (1 June 1994). "Assessing the Relationship between Industry Characteristics and Organizational Culture: How Different Can You Be?". Academy of Management Journal . 37 (3): 522– 553. CiteSeerX &#160; 10.1.1.466.3338 . JSTOR &#160; 256699 . ^ Oliva, Rogelio; Kallenberg, Robert (May 2003). "Managing the transition from products to services". International Journal of Service Industry Management . 14 (2): 160– 172. doi : 10.1108/09564230310474138 . S2CID &#160; 15739264 . ^ Çağatay, Hüseyin Tolga; Demirel, Yüksel; Ertuğrul, Bekir; Tekinyıldız, Esra (2024-10-07). "The effect of organizational culture in health services on employee flourishing" . Work . 79 (2): 601– 611. doi : 10.3233/WOR-230286 . PMID &#160; 38607779 . ^ Gross-Gołacka, Elwira; Martyniuk, Anna (2024-11-30). "Globalisation and the Challenges of Managing Cultural Diversity: From Multiculturalism to Interculturalism" . Journal of Intercultural Management . 16 (3): 37– 57. doi : 10.2478/joim-2024-0010 . ^ Karjalainen, Helena (2020-08-01). "Cultural identity and its impact on today's multicultural organizations" . International Journal of Cross Cultural Management . 20 (2): 249– 262. doi : 10.1177/1470595820944207 . ISSN &#160; 1470-5958 . ^ Olivier, Jacques; Thoenig, Mathias; Verdier, Thierry (2008-12-01). "Globalization and the dynamics of cultural identity" . Journal of International Economics . 76 (2): 356– 370. doi : 10.1016/j.jinteco.2008.06.009 . ISSN &#160; 0022-1996 . ^ Rugiubei, Radu; Cruceanu, Sabina (2024-12-01). "The Management of Organizational Culture in the Quiet Quitting Phenomenon in Romanian Companies" . Management Dynamics in the Knowledge Economy . 12 (4): 354– 370. doi : 10.2478/mdke-2024-0021 . ISSN &#160; 2392-8042 . ^ Schneider, Susan C. (1988). "National vs. Corporate culture: Implications for human resource management". Human Resource Management . 27 (2): 231– 246. doi : 10.1002/hrm.3930270207 . S2CID &#160; 153337682 . ^ Dong, Li; Glaister, Keith W. (4 April 2007). "National and corporate culture differences in international strategic alliances: Perceptions of Chinese partners". Asia Pacific Journal of Management . 24 (2): 191– 205. doi : 10.1007/s10490-006-9010-7 . S2CID &#160; 154740705 . ^ Geert Hofstede, 1991 ^ Janis, Irving Lester (1972). Victims of Groupthink: A Psychological Study of Foreign-policy Decisions and Fiascoes . Houghton, Mifflin. ISBN &#160; 978-0-395-14002-4 . &#91; page&#160;needed &#93; ^ Argote, Linda (2013). Organizational Learning: Creating, Retaining and Transferring Knowledge . Springer. pp.&#160; 115– 146. ^ Hogg, Michael A. (2001). From prototypicality to power: A social identity analysis of leadership . Advances in Group Processes. Vol.&#160;18. Bingley: Emerald Group. pp.&#160; 1– 30. doi : 10.1016/s0882-6145(01)18002-1 . ISBN &#160; 0-7623-0767-6 . ^ Den Hartog, Deanne N.; Koopman, Paul L. (2001). "Leadership in Organizations". Handbook of Industrial, Work &amp; Organizational Psychology . Vol. 2: Organizational Psychology. London: SAGE. pp.&#160; 166– 187. doi : 10.4135/9781848608368.n10 . ISBN &#160; 978-0-7619-6489-6 . ^ a b Groff, Todd R.; Jones, Thomas P. (2003). Introduction to Knowledge Management: KM in Business . Routledge. p.&#160;150. ISBN &#160; 978-0-7506-7728-8 . ^ Salin, Denise; Hoel, Helge (2010). "Organisational Causes of Workplace Bullying". Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace . pp.&#160; 140– 243. doi : 10.1201/EBK1439804896-13 (inactive 12 July 2025). ISBN &#160; 978-1-4398-0489-6 . } : CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 ( link ) ^ Helge, H; Sheehan, MJ; Cooper, CL; Einarsen, S (2010). "Organisational Effects of Workplace Bullying". Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace: Developments in Theory, Research, and Practice . Retrieved 2023-11-29 . ^ Quinn, Susan; Waheduzzaman, Wahed; Djurkovic, Nikola (2025-06-01). "Impact of Organizational Culture on Bullying Behavior in Public Sector Organizations" . Public Personnel Management . 54 (2): 184– 208. doi : 10.1177/00910260241287619 . ISSN &#160; 0091-0260 . ^ Joung, M. (2020). "Face Mask Culture Common in East, New to West" . ^ Kiggins, S. (2021). "How does wearing a face mask become the cultural norm? Expert comment" . ^ Somers, M. (2021). "How cultural psychology influences mask-wearing" . MIT Sloan . ^ Daum, D. L.; Maraist, C. C., C. C. (2021). "The importance of culture in the era of COVID-19". Industrial and Organizational Psychology . 14 ( 1– 2): 160– 162. doi : 10.1017/iop.2021.40 . S2CID &#160; 235127386 . ^ Weston, M. (2021). "How COVID-19 has impacted organisational culture" . ^ Klynn, B. (2021). "Resetting Your Company Culture for a Post-COVID World" . ^ Sull, D.; Sull, C. (2020). How Companies Are Winning on Culture During COVID-19 . ^ Chambers, R. (2020). "The Pandemic's Impact on Organizational Culture" . ^ Deloittee (2020). "Delve Deeper Into Changing Organisational Culture and Mindset Learnings From COVID-19" . ^ Daum &amp; Maraist 2021 . sfn error: no target: CITEREFDaumMaraist2021 ( help ) ^ Michael Skapinker (2016-08-24). "Lessons from the Deutsche Bank whistleblower Eric Ben-Artzi: A corporate culture must allow employees to dissent, before they take it outside the company" . Financial Times . Archived from the original on 2022-12-10 . Retrieved 2016-11-29 . ^ Tadesse Bogale, Addisalem, and Kenenisa Lemi Debela. “Organizational culture: A systematic review.” Cogent Business &amp;amp; Management , vol. 11, no. 1, 19 Apr. 2024, https://doi.org/10.1080/23311975.2024.2340129 ^ Solomon, Grant; Brown, Irwin (15 July 2021). "The influence of organisational culture and information security culture on employee compliance behaviour". Journal of Enterprise Information Management . 34 (4): 1203– 1228. doi : 10.1108/JEIM-08-2019-0217 . S2CID &#160; 225155658 . ^ Adkins &amp; Caldwell 2004 . ^ Clarke, Sharon (2006). "The relationship between safety climate and safety performance: A meta-analytic review". Journal of Occupational Health Psychology . 11 (4): 315– 327. doi : 10.1037/1076-8998.11.4.315 . PMID &#160; 17059296 . ^ Varmazyar, S.; Mortazavi, SB; Arghami, S.; Hajizadeh, E. (2014). "Relationship between organisational safety culture dimensions and crashes". International Journal of Injury Control and Safety Promotion . 23 (1): 72– 8. doi : 10.1080/17457300.2014.947296 . PMID &#160; 25494102 . S2CID &#160; 26702114 . ^ Denison, Haaland &amp; Goelzer 2004 . ^ Katzenbach, Jon R.; Steffen, Ilona; Kronley, Caroline (2012). "Cultural change that sticks". Harvard Business Review . 90 ( 7– 8): 110– 117, 162. PMID &#160; 22852451 . ^ Kungl, Carla T. (2020). "Artistic contribution and refinement of a corporate values statement: A case history at Publishing Concepts (PCI)". Technical Communication . 67 (4). ^ Logan, Dave; King, John; Fischer-Wright, Halee (2009). Tribal Leadership: Leveraging Natural Groups to Build a Thriving Organization . HarperCollins. ISBN &#160; 978-0-06-125130-6 . ^ "David Logan: Tribal leadership" . YouTube . 6 October 2009 . Retrieved 29 November 2024 . ^ Marquis, Christopher; Tilcsik, András (2013). "Imprinting: Toward A Multilevel Theory". Academy of Management Annals : 193– 243. SSRN &#160; 2198954 . ^ Cummings &amp; Worley 2004 , pp.&#160;491–492. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCummingsWorley2004 ( help ) ^ a b Kotter 1995 , p.&#160;2. ^ a b Cummings &amp; Worley 2004 , p.&#160;490. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCummingsWorley2004 ( help ) ^ de Caluwe, L.I.A.; Vermaak, H. (2004). "Change Paradigms: An overview". Organization Development Journal . 22 (4): 9– 18. ProQuest &#160; 197992224 . ^ Sathe 1983 . ^ Schall 1983 . ^ Keick 1985 . ^ DiTomaso 1987 . sfn error: no target: CITEREFDiTomaso1987 ( help ) ^ McCune &amp; May 1999 . sfn error: no target: CITEREFMcCuneMay_1999 ( help ) ^ a b Cummings &amp; Worley 2004 , p.&#160;491. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCummingsWorley2004 ( help ) ^ Parker 2000 . ^ Brewis, Joanna (2005). "Othering Organization Theory: Marta Calás and Linda Smircich". The Sociological Review . 53 : 80– 94. doi : 10.1111/j.1467-954X.2005.00542.x . S2CID &#160; 142515159 . ^ Packer, Charles (December 2002). A framework for the organizational assumptions underlying safety culture . International conference on safety culture in nuclear installations. Rio de Janeiro. ^ "US Labor Department's MSHA cites corporate culture as root cause of Upper Big Branch Mine disaster" . US Department of Labor . May 12, 2011. Archived from the original on February 3, 2012. ^ a b Tate, William (May 2005). "Working with the shadow side of organisations" . The Institute For Systemic Leadership . Retrieved 2023-11-29 . ^ Egan, Gerard (1994-10-28). Working the Shadow Side: A Guide to Positive Behind-the-Scenes Management . Wiley. ISBN &#160; 978-0-7879-0011-3 . Sources [ edit ] Adkins, B.; Caldwell, D. (2004). "Firm or subgroup culture: Where does fitting in matter most?". Journal of Organizational Behavior . 25 (8): 969– 978. doi : 10.1002/job.291 . Burman, R.; Evans, A.J. (2008). "Target Zero: A Culture of safety" (PDF) . Defence Aviation Safety Centre Journal. pp.&#160; 22– 27. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-05-14 . Retrieved 2008-05-08 . Cameron, Kim S. ; Quinn, Robert E. (1999). Diagnosing and changing organizational culture: based on the competing values framework . Addison-Wesley series on organization development. Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley. ISBN &#160; 978-0-201-33871-3 . Chatman, Jennifer A.; Jehn, Karen A. (June 1994). "Assessing the Relationship between Industry Characteristics and Organizational Culture: How Different can You Be?". Academy of Management Journal . 37 (3): 522– 553. doi : 10.5465/256699 (inactive 12 July 2025). JSTOR &#160; 256699 . ProQuest &#160; 199853245 . } : CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 ( link ) Cummings, Thomas (2004). "Organization Development and Change". Dynamics of Organizational Change and Learning . pp.&#160; 25– 42. doi : 10.1002/9780470753408.ch2 . ISBN &#160; 978-0-471-87737-0 . Denison, Daniel (1990-01-16). Corporate Culture and Organizational Effectiveness . Wiley. ISBN &#160; 978-0-471-80021-7 . Denison, Daniel R.; Haaland, Stephanie; Goelzer, Paulo (February 2004). "Corporate Culture and Organizational Effectiveness". Organizational Dynamics . 33 (1): 98– 109. doi : 10.1016/j.orgdyn.2003.11.008 . Handy, Charles B. (1976). Understanding Organizations . Oxford University Press. ISBN &#160; 978-0-19-508732-1 . Harris, Stanley G (1994). "Organizational Culture and Individual Sensemaking: A Schema-Based Perspective". Organization Science . 5 (3): 309– 321. doi : 10.1287/orsc.5.3.309 . Harrison, Roger (1972) Understanding your organisation's character , Harvard Business Review Hofstede, Geert (1984). Culture's Consequences: International Differences in Work-Related Values . SAGE. ISBN &#160; 978-0-8039-1306-6 . Hofstede, Geert; Hofstede, Gert Jan (2004-10-03). Cultures and Organizations: Software for the Mind . McGraw Hill Professional. ISBN &#160; 978-0-07-150568-0 . Johnson, Gerry (1988). "Rethinking Incrementalism". Strategic Management Journal . 9 : 75– 91. doi : 10.1002/smj.4250090107 . Keick, Karl E. (September 1985). "Cosmos vs. chaos: Sense and nonsense in electronic contexts". Organizational Dynamics . 14 (2): 51– 64. doi : 10.1016/0090-2616(85)90036-1 . Kotter, J. P. (1995). "Leading change: why transformation efforts fail" . Harvard Business Review (73): 59– 67 . Retrieved 2023-11-29 . Schall, Maryan S. (1983). "A Communication-Rules Approach to Organizational Culture". Administrative Science Quarterly . 28 (4): 557– 581. doi : 10.2307/2393009 . JSTOR &#160; 2393009 . McGuire, Stephen J.J. Entrepreneurial organizational culture: Construct definition and instrument development and validation (Thesis). Mulder, Mauk (1977). The daily power game . doi : 10.1007/978-1-4684-6951-6 . ISBN &#160; 978-1-4684-6953-0 . O'Rielly, Chatman; Caldwell (1991). "People and organizational culture: A profile comparison approach to assessing person-organization fit". Academy of Management Journal . 34 (3): 487– 516. Bibcode : 1991AManJ..34..487O . JSTOR &#160; 256404 . Parker, M. (2000). Organizational Culture and Identity . London: Sage. Parsons, Talcott ; Shils, Edward (1964-12-01). Toward a General Theory of Action: Theoretical Foundations for the Social Sciences . Transaction Publishers. ISBN &#160; 978-0-7658-0718-2 . } : ISBN / Date incompatibility ( help ) Peters ; Waterman (1982). In Search of Excellence . New York: Harper &amp; Row. Sathe, Vijay (September 1983). "Implications of corporate culture: A manager's guide to action". Organizational Dynamics . 12 (2): 5– 23. doi : 10.1016/0090-2616(83)90030-X . PMID &#160; 10264413 . Stoykov, Lubomir (1995). Фирмената култура и комуникация &#91; Company culture and communication &#93; (in Bulgarian). Sofia: Stopanstvo. Zhang, Xibao (2009). Values, Expectations, Ad Hoc Rules, and Culture Emergence in International Cross Cultural Management Contexts . New York: Nova Science Publishers. Further reading [ edit ] Barney, Jay B. (July 1986). "Organizational Culture: Can It Be a Source of Sustained Competitive Advantage?". Academy of Management Review . 11 (3): 656– 665. doi : 10.5465/amr.1986.4306261 . Black, Richard J. (2003) Organizational Culture: Creating the Influence Needed for Strategic Success , London UK, ISBN &#160; 1-58112-211-X Bligh, Michelle C (2006). "Surviving Post-merger 'Culture Clash': Can Cultural Leadership Lessen the Casualties?". Leadership . 2 (4): 395– 426. doi : 10.1177/1742715006068937 . S2CID &#160; 146156535 . Boddy, C. R. (2011) Corporate Psychopaths: Organizational Destroyers , Palgrave Macmillan Hartnell, C. A.; Ou, A. Y.; Kinicki, A. (2011). "Organizational Culture and Organizational Effectiveness: A Meta-Analytic Investigation of the Competing Values Framework's Theoretical Suppositions". Journal of Applied Psychology . 96 (4): 677– 694. doi : 10.1037/a0021987 . PMID &#160; 21244127 . Jex, Steven M. Jex &amp; Britt, Thomas W. (2008) Organizational Psychology, A Scientist-Practitioner Approach , John Wiley &amp; Sons, ISBN &#160; 978-0-470-10976-2 . Kleinbaum, Rob and Aviva (2013). Creating a Culture of Profitability , Probabilistic Publishing, ISBN &#160; 978-0-9647938-9-7 . Markus, Hazel (1977). "Self-schemata and processing information about the self". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology . 35 (2): 63– 78. Bibcode : 1977JPSP...35...63M . doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.35.2.63 . Mills, Albert J (1988). "Organization, Gender and Culture". Organization Studies . 9 (3): 351– 369. doi : 10.1177/017084068800900304 . S2CID &#160; 144595059 . O'Donovan, Gabrielle (2006). The Corporate Culture Handbook: How to Plan, Implement and Measure a Successful Culture Change Programme , The Liffey Press, ISBN &#160; 1-904148-97-2 Papa, Michael J., et al . (2008), Organizational Communication Perspectives and Trends (4th Ed.). Sage Publications. Phegan, B. (1996–2000) Developing Your Company Culture, A Handbook for Leaders and Managers , Context Press, ISBN &#160; 0-9642205-0-4 Sopow, E. (2007). Corporate personality disorder . Lincoln Neb.: iUniverse. Luthans, F. &amp; Doh Jonathan, P. (2015). "International Management, Culture, Strategy and Behavior" (9th ed.). McGraw Hill External links [ edit ] Organizational Culture and Institutional Transformation ( PDF ) – From the Education Resources Information Center Clearinghouse on Higher Education Washington, DC ; Corporate executives discuss the importance of building a healthy, effective organizational culture Organizational Culture , Joel Peterson (Chairman of JetBlue Corporation and managing partner of Trammell Crow Company ), Stanford Graduate School of Business Organizational Culture Trumps Strategy , Mindy Grossman (CEO of the Home Shopping Network [HSN]), Stanford Graduate School of Business Organizational Culture , Isadore Sharp (founder and chairman of Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts ), Stanford Graduate School of Business Organizational Debt is like Technical debt – but worse , Steve Blank (entrepreneur, investor and Stanford University professor) v t e Aspects of organizations Topics Architecture Behavior Blame Capital Cells Chart Citizenship behavior Climate Commitment Communication Complexity Conflict Culture Design Development Diagnostics Dissent Ecology Effectiveness Engineering Ethics Field Hierarchy Identification Intelligence Justice Learning Life cycle Machiavellianism Narcissism Network analysis Ombudsman Patterns Perceived support Performance Psychology Resilience Retaliatory behavior Safety Space Storytelling Structure Theory Workshop See also History of organizations Organization studies Outline of organizational theory See also templates Aspects of corporations Aspects of jobs Aspects of occupations Aspects of workplaces v t e Culture Outline Sciences Cultural anthropology Cultural astronomy Cultural ecology Cultural geography Cultural neuroscience Cultural studies Culturology Culture theory Subfields Bioculture Cross-cultural studies Cross-cultural communication Cross-cultural leadership Cross-cultural psychiatry Cross-cultural psychology Cultural analytics Cultural economics Cultural entomology Cultural history Cultural mapping Cultural mediation Cultural psychology Cultural values Culturomics Intercultural learning Intercultural relations Philosophy of culture Popular culture studies Postcritique Semiotics of culture Sociology of culture Sound culture Theology of culture Transcultural nursing Types Constructed culture Dominant culture Folk culture High culture Individualistic culture Legal culture Microculture Official culture Political culture Civic Popular culture Low culture Media culture Recombinant culture Remix culture Trash culture Urban Primitive culture Resistance through culture Subculture Alternative culture Counterculture Fandom Far-right subcultures Underground culture Youth subculture list Super culture Supporter Culture Vernacular culture Culture by location Aspects Acculturation Cultural appreciation Cultural appropriation Cultural area Cultural artifact Cultural baggage Cultural bias Cultural capital Cross-cultural Cultural communication Cultural conflict Cultural cringe Cultural dissonance Cultural framework Cultural heritage Destroyed Cultural icon Cultural identity Cultural industry Cultural invention Cultural landscape Cultural learning Cultural leveling Cultural memory Cultural pluralism Cultural practice Cultural property Cultural reproduction Cultural system Cultural technology Cultural universal Cultureme Enculturation High- and low-context cultures High-trust and low-trust societies Interculturality Internet culture Manuscript culture Material culture Non-material culture Organizational culture Assessment culture Design culture Journalism culture Print culture Protoculture Relational mobility Safety culture Symbolic culture Technoculture Trans-cultural diffusion Transculturation Visual culture Politics Colonial mentality Consumer capitalism Cross cultural sensitivity Cultural assimilation Cultural attaché Cultural backwardness Cultural Bolshevism Cultural conservatism Cultural contracts Cultural deprivation Cultural diplomacy Cultural environmentalism Cultural exception Cultural feminism Cultural genocide Cultural globalization Cultural hegemony Cultural imperialism Cultural intelligence Cultural liberalism Cultural nationalism Cultural pessimism Cultural policy Cultural racism Cultural radicalism Cultural retention Cultural Revolution Cultural rights Cultural safety Cultural silence Cultural subsidy Cultural Zionism Culture change Culture minister Culture of fear Culture war Deculturalization Dominator culture Interculturalism Monoculturalism Multiculturalism Biculturalism Multiracial democracy Pluriculturalism Polyculturalism Transculturism Religions Buddhism Christianity Catholicism Cultural Christians Protestantism Role of Christianity in civilization Eastern Orthodoxy Mormonism Cultural Hindus Islam Cultural Muslims Judaism Sikhism Related Algorithmic culture Animal culture Archaeological culture Bennett scale Cannabis culture Circuit of culture Civilization Coffee culture Cringe culture Cross-cultural Cultural center Cultural competence Cultural critic Cultural determinism Cultural diversity Cultural evolutionism Cultural homogenization Cultural institution Cultural jet lag Cultural lag Cultural literacy Cultural mosaic Cultural movement Cultural mulatto Cultural probe Cultural relativism Cultural tourism Pop-culture Cultural translation Cultural turn Cultural sensibility Culture and menstruation Culture and positive psychology Culture and social cognition Culture gap Culture hero Culture industry Culture shock Culturgen Children's culture Culturalism Cyberculture Death and culture Disability culture Deaf culture Drinking culture Drug culture Eastern culture Emotions and culture Free-culture movement Historical culture Intercultural communication Intercultural competence Languaculture Living things in culture Media culture Oppositional culture Participatory culture Permission culture Rape culture Tea culture Transformation of culture Urban culture Welfare culture Western culture Youth culture Category Authority control databases International GND National France BnF data Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Organizational_culture&amp;oldid=1360261626 " Categories : Organizational culture Industrial and organizational psychology Corporatism Cultural economics Cultural studies Human resource management Labour law Hidden categories: CS1 errors: ISBN date Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from December 2023 CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 Harv and Sfn no-target errors Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from January 2020 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from May 2024 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues Articles with sources from predatory publications All pages needing factual verification Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from November 2024 Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated link CS1 Bulgarian-language sources (bg) This page was last edited on 20 June 2026, at 08:10 &#160;(UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Legal &amp; safety contacts Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Organizational culture 37 languages Add topic